I want you to hit me as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at someone the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits have rolled this time we're
going to be looking at the 2014 sci-fi
epic from Christopher Nolan interstellar
while the modern master is no stranger
to leaving audiences with a question
mark at the end of his movies
interstellar is a little more simple and
yet entirely more complex than previous
finales to his films set in an
understated dystopian future in which
the world's food supply is running short
the story follows a team of astronauts
on a mission to find a new home for
Humanity in another galaxy the
plausibility of the threat to mankind on
earth in the film was criticized and yet
the core meat of the story following the
scientist through a wormhole to another
galaxy along with the handling of black
holes was met with praise for his
accuracy based on scientific theory the
two central characters on the
interstellar mission are joseph Cooper
and NASA pilot and Amelia brand a
scientist and daughter to Professor
brand the mastermind behind the
operation obviously I'm going to assume
here that you've seen the film and
spoilers are to be expected the galaxies
that the crew traveled to has a number
of potential planets that could make for
a new home for mankind but time is
essential as the galaxy is also home to
a black hole
gargantuan the first planet they
investigate in hope of finding signs of
a previous crews exploration is close
enough to the black hole that a time
dilation occurs at the being on the
planet for a matter of minutes
Brandon Cooper returned to their ship to
find that 23 years have passed which
makes Cooper's previous joke to his
young daughter Murphy startlingly real
mimmo time I get back meal we might even
be the same age you and me what imagine
on the second planet they find dr. Mann
a member of the doomed crew who tried to
find a habitable planet before they soon
realize although too late that he has to
some degree lost his mind and attempts
to sabotage their intention to leave the
planets with little fuel left Brandon
Cooper along with the robots tars and
case try slingshotting around the black
hole to reach the third and final
planets their last hope however there
isn't enough momentum for the plan to
work with the ship at its current weight
so Cooper and tars jettison the Landers
of the ship to allow brand and case to
reach the third planet alone Cooper then
ejects from the lander and falls into
the event horizon of the black hole
entering the unknown
[Music]
apparently alive and intact Cooper finds
himself inside a tesseract constructed
of a singly endless array of his
daughter Murphy's bedroom throughout
time after recovering from his initial
desperation to communicate with his
daughter verbally Cooper realizes he can
weakly manipulate the bookshelf from the
outside and conveys a message in Morse
code the same message that led Cooper
and Murphy to NASA at the beginning of
the film
Cooper being the origin of what Murphy
thought was a ghost in her room Cooper
then re-establish his contact with tars
and begins to piece together a plan to
save the world professor brands primary
goal on earth was to solve a
gravitational equation that could enable
humanity to leave the planet and to
journey to their new home in the new
galaxy without the answers of this
equation the earth is doomed and only
the scientist who traveled through the
black hole could continue human life so
Cooper decides to code the watch that he
left his daughter with before he left
with the answer to the quantum equation
related to him by tars into the second
hands movements knowing that eventually
one day she would figure it out which of
course she does and then with Cooper
still inside the tesseract begins to
collapse we see Cooper presumably
traveling through a wormhole as he
reaches out to brand in a scene we saw
earlier when the crew first traveled
through the wormhole to get to the new
galaxy he then ends up unconscious and
floating in space near Saturn where the
wormhole first originated waking up on a
space station appropriately named Cooper
station he finds himself far into the
future and reunites with his daughter
Murphy in the final stages of her old
age at her urging he decides to take a
ship to go off and to try and find brand
in the hopes that her journey to the
third possible planet was successful we
see that it was and that she had created
a crude Memorial grave for Edmunds her
partner that a journey there before her
and in the final shot we understand that
the planet is habitable and that a
colony is being created
she's settling in for the Louisville
[Music]
but the light of our new Sun
in our new home
[Music]
[Applause]
so what's not to get
pretty straightforward right well at the
time of its release a lot of people were
confused with interstellar or simply
rejected the conclusion of the film for
one thing why was a mind-bending
construction of Murphy's bedroom inside
the black hole for me one of the biggest
leaps of the film is the idea that
Cooper's connection and love for his
daughter is what creates this fifth
dimensional space and I like that
interpretation the characters in the
film talk about love and how it can't be
quantified or broken down scientifically
unlike the majority of the tasks that
they have to face on their mission the
love between the father and the daughter
transcends space time and to a degree
reason but it's not the only leap in the
film as Cooper who wanders allowed
inside the tesseract as to why it's
there and what's really happening comes
to his own conclusion a conclusion that
has perhaps a little more reasonable if
still outlandish than the tesseract
being a pure product of love he muses
that the tesseract and the wormhole that
appeared in our solar system to guide
the way through the new galaxy was not
placed there by aliens as they had
previously thought it's wandered
throughout the film if the beacon and
pathway to a new home was placed there
by some higher being and Cooper comes to
the idea that it was placed there by
humans perhaps advanced to another form
far into the future now to some this is
still a stretch and perhaps sours them
on the film's ending and of course there
are many theories out there regarding
the third act of interstellar certainly
the idea of this whole story bending
time the way it does create somewhat of
a paradox that doesn't seem to fluidly
make sense you can look at Cooper's
comments about time and space and
dimensions beyond the realms that we can
even comprehend ourselves as a cheap way
of explaining away this paradox or you
can allow the incomprehensible to fire
your imagination into the sky and enjoy
the quintessentially sci-fi ending of
the movie however the majority of the
skepticism over the film's ending is the
coda following the tesseract sequence
through the cross-cutting of the film
from Cooper and brands into
our adventure to an adult Murphy and
professor brand back on earth we see in
the tesseract scene that Cooper's plan
works in real time and that she is able
to solve the gravitational quandary
which will save the world and it could
be argued that the film could end right
here
perhaps with Cooper's lifeless body
floating in space outside of Saturn's
orbits his mission accomplished the
Cooper station coda seems perhaps a
little too neat and convenience the film
was written by Christopher Nolan
alongside his brother Jonathan Nolan who
had been working on the script alone for
four years Christopher then merged it
with ideas he had also had for another
script molding it into the film it
became when Jonathan Nolan was
questioned over what happened at the end
of the film he simply said that you've
got the wrong brother as Jonathan's
ending to the film saw the wormhole
collapse as Cooper began to send the
data leaving the answer of whether or
not earth received the message ambiguous
so Christopher Nolan's final version of
the story the one we all saw on the big
screen makes the ending significantly
less ambiguous plausibility pushed
definitively to one side but should we
take everything in that final sequence
at face value
perhaps Cooper does send the data back
and perhaps he does end up floating in
space back in his own solar system but
perhaps that's the end of his life his
last words were what happens now a
question that could be drawn very
closely to the question of what happens
to us when we die before seeing a bright
light to boot Cooper station is depicted
as a conical station with an opening at
the end allowing sunlight to filter in
light at the end of the tunnel yet
another possible comparison to either
death or a near-death experience which
only begs the question could this all be
an elaborate death dream for Cooper when
he sees an old Murphy surrounded by her
own family he doesn't even look at them
which is understandable given his
immensely strong connection with Murphy
but even they treats him with
indifference they're all family after
all but they're treated in the scene
like set-dressing
and if it really is Cooper's death dream
he would hardly be focused on creating a
fleshed out family for himself and would
surely be solely obsessed with seeing
Murphy again
one last time now obviously this is the
end of the film and things need to be
snappy but he leaves the room eyes
locked on his daughter and fades away
into the background his family still
ignoring his presence for all intents
and purposes they're not even gonna say
hi I mean it's not just a long-lost
grandfather or great-grandfather it's
also the man who saved humanity and he
isn't even given a second glance is this
all by design we can even go further
back and look at the tesseract sequence
as part of his potential death people
that have claimed to have had near-death
experiences of reported visions of
geometrical shapes also earlier in the
film dr. Mann talks to Cooper about what
you see when you're about to die your
children and what does Cooper see in the
tesseract his daughter now he does have
a son but the film is built around the
father-daughter connection between
Murphy and Cooper and Alisha's called a
spade a spade he seems to favor his
daughter and what is the tesseract this
fifth dimensional unexplainable space in
which time becomes Infinite has no
boundaries if not the ultimate wish
fulfillment to Cooper in which he not
only gets to see his daughter again but
magically helps her to save the world
when he awakes on Cooper station he
finds a reconstructed replica of his old
home even a baseball field right outside
of the ward he wakes up in it all does
ring a little too good to be true there
are many questions raised in
interstellar and fewer answers I like to
enjoy the third act of interstellar at
face value because I cherish the idea
that love could be so strong and the no
matter what curve balls gets thrown at
humanity we would still find a way to
endure to survive and to hope against
interstellar cataclysmic odds but I
still find there to be alternate ways to
perceive the ending of this film there
could be perfectly valid to other people
after all as a great director once said
I can only ever make 50% of a film the
other 50% is made with the person
watching it in the theatre Christopher
Nolan himself kg as always simply has
this to say for people still unsure
about the ending of interstellar it's
there for you to make what you make of
it
people do always have radically
different interpretations of things I
put in there but I know what I think
and I don't like it to have any more
validity than the experience you have
watching it once again I've been Luke
Ryan for Joe Blow calm let us know in
the comments section down below what you
think of the interstellar ending and
what your interpretation is of the final
events of the film and stay tuned for
more original videos right here on the
Joe Blow videos YouTube channel and
thank you for watching
[Music]